
  chromium cellular and molecular barcode information for each read is stored
  in the following TAG fields:

  tag	type	description
  ----  ------  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  CB	Z	    chromium cellular barcode sequence that is error-corrected and
                confirmed against a list of known-good barcode sequences. for
                multiplex flex, the cellular barcode is a combination of the 10x 
                gem barcode and probe barcode sequences.

  CR	Z	    chromium cellular barcode sequence as reported by the sequencer.
                for multiplex flex, the cellular barcode is a combination of the
                10x gem barcode and probe barcode sequences.

  CY	Z	    chromium cellular barcode read quality. for multiplex flex, the
                cellular barcode is a combination of the 10x gem barcode and
                probe barcode sequences. phred scores as reported by sequencer.

  UB	Z	    chromium molecular barcode sequence that is error-corrected
                among other molecular barcodes with the same cellular barcode
                and gene alignment.

  UR	Z	    chromium molecular barcode sequence as reported by the sequencer.

  UY	Z	    chromium molecular barcode read quality.
                phred scores as reported by sequencer.

  TR	Z	    trimmed sequence. for the single cell 3' v1 chemistry, this is
                trailing sequence following the umi on read 2. for the single
                cell 3' v2 chemistry, this is trailing sequence following the
                cell and molecular barcodes on read 1.

  RG	Z	    identifies the read group, indicating the library source of each read.
  
  the cell barcode CB tag includes a suffix with a dash separator followed by a number:
  
    AAACCCAAGGAGAGTA-1
  
  this number denotes the gem well, and is used to virtualize barcodes in order
  to achieve a higher effective barcode diversity when combining samples
  generated from separate gem well channel runs. normally, this number will be
  "1" across all barcodes when analyzing a sample generated from a single gem
  well channel. it can either be left in place and treated as part of a unique
  barcode identifier, or explicitly parsed out to leave only the barcode
  sequence itself.
  
  the following tags will also be present on reads that mapped to the genome and
  overlapped an exon by at least one base pair. reads aligned to the
  transcriptome across exon junctions in the genome will have a large gap in
  their cigar string i.e., 35m225n64m. a read may align to multiple transcripts
  and genes, but it is only considered confidently mapped to the transcriptome
  if it is mapped to a single gene (see this page for methods to check for
  multi-mapped reads). cell ranger modifies mapq values; see the mm tag below.

  tag	type	description
  ----  ------  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  TX	Z	    present in reads aligned to the same strand as the transcripts
                in this semicolon-separated list that are compatible with this
                alignment. transcripts are specified with the transcript_id key 
                in the reference gtf attribute column. the format of each entry 
                is [transcript_id],[strand][pos],[cigar]. strand is + as reads 
                with this annotation were correctly aligned in the expected 
                orientation (in contrast to the an tag below, where the strand 
                is - to indicate antisense alignments). pos is the alignment 
                offset in transcript coordinates, and cigar is the cigar string 
                in transcript coordinates.

  AN	Z	    present for reads that are aligned to the antisense strand of
                annotated transcripts. if intron counts are not included (with
                include-introns=false), this tag is the same as the tx tag but
                with - values for the strand identifier. if introns are included
                (include-introns=true), the an tag contains the corresponding
                antisense gene identifier values (starting with ensg) rather
                than transcript identifier values (starting with enst).

  GX	Z	    semicolon-separated list of gene ids that are compatible with
                this alignment. gene ids are specified with the gene_id key in
                the reference gtf attribute column.

  GN	Z	    semicolon-separated list of gene names that are compatible with
                this alignment. gene names are specified with gene_name key in
                the reference gtf attribute column.

  mm	i	    set to 1 if the genome-aligner (star) originally gave a 
                mapq < 255 (it multi-mapped to the genome) and cell ranger
                changed it to 255 because the read overlapped exactly one gene.

  RE	A	    single character indicating the region type of this alignment
                (E = exonic, N = intronic, I = intergenic).

  pa	i	    the number of poly-a nucleotides trimmed from the 3' end of
                read 2. up to 10% mismatches are permitted.

  pr	Z	    for flex, a semicolon-separated list of probe ids: one probe id
                if both read halves align to the same probe, and two probe ids
                if each read half aligns to a different probe, or na if a read 
                half does not align to a probe.

  ts	i	    the number of template switch oligo (tso) nucleotides trimmed
                from the 5' end of read 2. up to 3 mismatches are permitted. 
                the 30-bp tso sequence is AAGCAGTGGTATCAACGCAGAGTACATGGG.
